posts/funct.md, before:

# Working with Native Arrays

In JavaScript, arrays can be created with the `Array` constructor, or using the `[]` convenience shortcut, which is also the preferred approach. Arrays inherit from the `Object` prototype and they haven't a special value for `typeof`, they return `'object'` too. Using `[] instanceof Array`, however, returns true. That being said, there are also _Array-like objects_ which complicate matters, [like the `arguments` object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions_and_function_scope/arguments "The arguments object - MDN"). The `arguments` object is not an instance of `Array`, but it still has a `length` property, and its values are indexed, so it can be looped like any Array.

In this article I'll go over a few of the methods on the `Array` prototype, and explore the possibilities each of these methods unveil.

- Looping with `.forEach`
- Asserting with `.some` and `.every`
- Stacks and queues with `.pop`, `.push`, `.shift`, and `.unshift`
- Model mapping with `.map`
- Querying with `.filter`
- Ordering with `.sort`
- Computing with `.reduce`, `.reduceRight`
- Copying a `.slice`
- The power of `.splice`
- Lookups with `indexOf`
- The `in` operator
- Going in `.reverse`
- Subtleties in `.join` and `.concat`
- Memoization

![console.png][1]

### Looping with `.forEach`

This is one of the simplest methods in a native JavaScript Array. [Unsurprisingly unsupported™](http://kangax.github.io/es5-compat-table/#Array.prototype.forEach "ECMAScript 5 compatibility table") in IE7 and IE8.

`forEach` takes a callback which is invoked once for each element in the array, and gets passed three arguments.

- `value` containing the current array element
- `index` is the element's position in the array
- `array` is a reference to the array

Furthermore, we could pass an optional second parameter which will become the context (`this`) for each function call.

```js
['_', 't', 'a', 'n', 'i', 'f', ']'].forEach(function (value, index, array) {
	this.push(String.fromCharCode(value.charCodeAt() + index + 2))
}, out = [])

out.join('')
// <- 'awesome'
```

I cheated with `.join` which we didn't cover _yet_, but we'll look at it soon. We **can't break `forEach` loops**, and throwing exceptions wouldn't be very sensible. Luckily, we have other options available to us in those cases where we might want to short-circuit a loop.

### Asserting with `.some` and `.every`






  [1]: http://i.imgur.com/z0Hun2i.png

Commit message:

started with some and every

posts/funct.md, after:

# Working with Native Arrays

In JavaScript, arrays can be created with the `Array` constructor, or using the `[]` convenience shortcut, which is also the preferred approach. Arrays inherit from the `Object` prototype and they haven't a special value for `typeof`, they return `'object'` too. Using `[] instanceof Array`, however, returns true. That being said, there are also _Array-like objects_ which complicate matters, [like the `arguments` object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions_and_function_scope/arguments "The arguments object - MDN"). The `arguments` object is not an instance of `Array`, but it still has a `length` property, and its values are indexed, so it can be looped like any Array.

In this article I'll go over a few of the methods on the `Array` prototype, and explore the possibilities each of these methods unveil.

- Looping with `.forEach`
- Asserting with `.some` and `.every`
- Stacks and queues with `.pop`, `.push`, `.shift`, and `.unshift`
- Model mapping with `.map`
- Querying with `.filter`
- Ordering with `.sort`
- Computing with `.reduce`, `.reduceRight`
- Copying a `.slice`
- The power of `.splice`
- Lookups with `indexOf`
- The `in` operator
- Going in `.reverse`
- Subtleties in `.join` and `.concat`
- Memoization

![console.png][1]

### Looping with `.forEach`

This is one of the simplest methods in a native JavaScript Array. [Unsurprisingly unsupported™](http://kangax.github.io/es5-compat-table/#Array.prototype.forEach "ECMAScript 5 compatibility table") in IE7 and IE8.

`forEach` takes a callback which is invoked once for each element in the array, and gets passed three arguments.

- `value` containing the current array element
- `index` is the element's position in the array
- `array` is a reference to the array

Furthermore, we could pass an optional second argument which will become the context (`this`) for each function call.

```js
['_', 't', 'a', 'n', 'i', 'f', ']'].forEach(function (value, index, array) {
	this.push(String.fromCharCode(value.charCodeAt() + index + 2))
}, out = [])

out.join('')
// <- 'awesome'
```

I cheated with `.join` which we didn't cover _yet_, but we'll look at it soon. We **can't break `forEach` loops**, and throwing exceptions wouldn't be very sensible. Luckily, we have other options available to us in those cases where we might want to short-circuit a loop.

### Asserting with `.some` and `.every`

If you've ever worked with .NET's enumerables, these methods are the _poorly named_ cousins of [`.Any(x => x.IsAwesome)`](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb534972(v=vs.110).aspx "IEnumerable.Any<TSource> in .NET 4.5") and [`.All(x => x.IsAwesome)`](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb548541(v=vs.110).aspx "IEnumerable.All<TSource> in .NET 4.5").

These methods are similar to `.forEach` in that they also take a callback with `value`, `index`, and `array`, which can be context-bound passing a second `thisArgument` argument to them.




  [1]: http://i.imgur.com/z0Hun2i.png
